---
layout: post
title: "Initial Commit"
date: 2010-10-26 02:27
comments: false
categories:
---
Well, I doubt there is anyone actually going to my website. I refuse to employ
silly Google Analytics for a toy site like my own. I'm in the unfortunate
position of being both rubbish at design, and very particular about it. Thus, I
do something with my website that I like at the time, and then can't bring
myself to go back to it because I know I won't like it and end up redoing it
from scratch, but I have all of these things I've been meaning to write down. I
guess I'll do it here. I picked posterous because I can just write myself emails
and they accidentally become public, so I better not talk about the money I've
stashed in the third tree on the left near the playground outside my old
school...

Anyway, a number of things have happened since I last wrote anything longer than
140 chars on the internet. The whole microblagging thing is one of them. I have
become somewhat enamored of identi.ca, my usage of which increased heavily after
I got a twitter account for my job. Not so much the format, though I do find it
a challenge against my natural verbosity, but the people. People make a social
network and Identi.cats are some of the coolest folk on the great wide online.
Having been inspired by the work and play of my fellow #neckbeards and free
software users, I decided to spend more time contributing back to community. I
think a lot of this will come in the form of documentation, bug reporting, and
baked goods for the locals. Part of this was reconstructing my online presence.
So here I am. I make no promises of regularity, nor about what content will
follow this, if any. But if I become moved to write about something, it will
more than likely manifest itself here.

I guess, I guess I have a blog now,

Steven!

