---
layout: post
title: Good Eats and Drinks for Clojure/west
date: 2012-03-14 11:19:00 -7
comments: true
categories: 
---

Clojure/west is only feeding us lunch on Friday. That leaves us to our own
devices for Friday's dinner, after-after-party drinks, Saturday's lunch,
dinner, and drinks.

Furthermore, Clojure/west's website lists the official guide from the city of
San Jose, which includes a lot of duds and places far away from the conference
venue. There's not much I like about Downtown San José but the few things I do
enjoy are places to eat and drink.

For the impatient, [here's the map](http://g.co/maps/r8kcf) of everything.

As a student at San José State, I spend a lot of time in this part of town and
have compiled a short list of places to eat and drink while you're in town for
the conference. If you're venturing further afield than downtown or just want to
hang out. I exist on the Twitters as
[@nuclearsandwich](https://twitter.com/nuclearsandwich)

I've included below a description of my usual haunts and a like to Google's
walking directions from the conference hotel.

### Good Karma

To my mind, [Good Karma](http://g.co/maps/j342r) is the best food in Downtown
San José. Yes it's a vegan restaurant but the food is stellar. They have a
selection of entrées such as Spicy Basil Tofu and Chana Masala which they serve
on a plate with brown rice and house gravy, or in a wrap. The spicy basil tofu
and Pra-Ram are my favorites at the moment. The other best thing about Good
Karma is their amazing beer selection. Even if you don't make it out for the
food, treat yourself to a good beer. I wrote most of this article from Good
Karma. If you're an IPA fan, Good Karma currently has a host of exceptional IPAs
including Russian River's Pliny the Elder, one of my favorites in the genre.

### La Lune Sucrée

[La Lune Sucrée](http://g.co/maps/6ckzq) only opened up recently. It's above
average for a student's lunch and I generally consider coming here a treat. They
have a number of French staples such as croque-monsieur which I cannot speak
toward, but their Apple and Brie (with ham if you want it) sandwich has walnuts
and cranberries and is quite yummy as is the vegetable quiche. They also have
one of my favorite ginger ales but it comes in massive one liter bottles.

### Single Barrel

[Single Barrel](http://g.co/maps/sh5mk) is cocktail heaven. Your first drink
here, you're not allowed to order from the menu and you'll probably never want
to. Instead your bartender is going to ask you what sort of flavors you enjoy
and through a serious of questions, arrive at a cocktail that suits you well.
Come in the mood to relax and take your time with the drinks here as they aren't
cheap. Also be warned that they don't take groups larger than six since it is a
speakeasy in a low-ceilinged basement. They have chess, checkers, Connect Four,
and Scrabble so long as you keep the volume down.

### Tandoori Oven

[Tandori Oven](http://g.co/maps/x6md8) is mostly here because some of you won't
want to eat at Good Karma for every meal. I've eaten here once or twice and
never been disappointed, but there's better Indian closer to where I live so
this restaurant is not in my regular rotation.

### Satori Tea Bar

[Satori Tea Bar](http://g.co/maps/2bv9c) isn't a place to eat lunch or dinner
and the hours are quite restricted. However, if you need to take a break and go
somewhere quiet and contemplative where you can drink delicious oolongs and rare
greens or try the delicious guayusa, which is similar to yerba mate but sweeter.

A quick stop at Satori for tea to go would also be nice walking back from the
Mmmoon

### The Mmmoon

Despite its silly name, [The Mmmoon](http://g.co/maps/shze2) makes really
delicious empanadas both sweet and savory. The sauce they use is quite unique
and although I've seen it in a number of other empanada restaurants throughout
the Bay Area, this is the best one I've had. Lunch here can be cheap and
filling. They also deliver within five miles of their location which includes
the conference venue.

### Grande Pizzeria

I've only eaten at [Grande](http://g.co/maps/nxcpq) because the school regularly
hosts mixers with IBM, Cisco, and NetApp here. The pizza is alright and they
have a few "good enough" beers and an inexpensive happy hour that coincides with
the dinner break.

### La Victoria

This is the quintessential college eatery. The food here won't be great, but
when you're starving at 2AM it will be a feast. Their orange salsa is also raved
about but I don't think much of it. I tend to avoid
[La Vic](http://g.co/maps/jez57) because the food is only "vegetarian" if you're
willing to apply large double quotes to the term.  It made the list because
you've not properly been to Downtown San José until you've been to La Victoria.

