---
layout: post
title: "Jeff Atwood Misses the Point"
date: 2012-05-15 02:51
comments: true
published: true
categories: 
---

Jeff Atwood wrote an article this morning called [Please Don't Learn to Code][0].
He addresses some serious problems with the way we present programming to the
external world, which is probably comes from a desire to dress up what we do as
cooler than plumbing. But he goes a step too far telling people *not* to learn
something. Programming ability is not a ticket to a magical land of unicorns,
fairies and premier upper-middle class salaries. Programming is diverting,
challenging, and interesting. It's a great thing to make a career out of, but
also a fantastic hobby. There are many reasons to learn to program no matter who
you are. I've been preparing that article for ages and will hopefully finish it
some time after I've calmed down. There is a difference between a software
developer (engineer, if you prefer) and someone who knows how to program. I can't
speak for "the movement" although, I'm pleased as punch that there is one but I
can say that aside from being honest about how much I make writing software and
how I learned what enables me to earn that I have never told someone the reason
to learn programming was to rake in the cash.


#### The Mayor Learns to Program

His opening remarks jab at the Mayor of New York's supposed new year's
resolution to learn to code suggesting we'd end up with

```
10 PRINT "I AM MAYOR"
20 GOTO 10
```

If Mayor Bloomberg gets that far, it would actually be awesome. I'm not
suggesting he spend his mayoral days learning Javascript but everyone has
nights, weekends, and hobbies. I'm sure the mayor of New York can afford to have
quite a few.

Mr. Atwood, I don't want everyone to become a crack Java developer. I wouldn't
wish that on my worst nemesis. What I want is for anyone with even a passing
interest in how computer software works to have access to tools and materials
they need to learn more about it as they please. And we don't have that yet.
[CodeAcademy][1] is doing an excellent job getting us closer and should be
applauded for doing so.


#### Programming as a Life Skill

> It is obvious to me how being a skilled reader, a skilled writer, and at least
> high school level math are fundamental to performing the job of a politician.
> Or at any job, for that matter. But understanding variables and functions,
> pointers and recursion?

Here you're comparing big things (reading, writing, and mathematics) to little
things (variables, pointers, and functions). The individual concepts are of
little importance the same way homophones and perfect grammar are of little
importance. But how deeply can you trust a politician's reasoning about software
and technology if they lack even a basic understanding about how that computer
works. There's a startling *lack* of digital literacy among people outside of
software engineering and there are people trying to break down those barriers
and get the interesting and *relevant* information out there in understandable
ways.

Programming is absolutely not on the same level as reading or arithmetic
however, does your argument for not teaching it in schools then extend to arts
and music? Surely they are not as basic a skill as reading and arithmetic yet we
still perceive some value in teaching them to children.

You said yourself that a software developer's job is to solve problems. Well
what is a JavaScript interpreter but an abstract problem solving sandbox? Is
there a specific reason you *don't* want problem solving to be a general skill?
Are you frightened of our field losing status as the only problem solvers?

The critical thinking skills that I started developing when I started learning
to code are what sustain me both physically and mentally. I would love to be
teaching these skills in elementary school for that reason alone. Programming is
engaging, and while it won't engage everyone, we should at least be providing
the same opportunities we used to afford music, art, and wood shop. How many
people who took wood shop in high school went on to become carpenters? Probably
not many. But how many gained some level of appreciation for the craft? I'm sure
that number is far higher. I didn't have wood shop at my high school, but I was
fortunate in that my father, uncle, and grandfather all work with wood in
various capacities and that allowed me to see how enjoyable and creative the
process is.


#### In Which We are Likened to Plumbers

> I can also recognize plumbing problems when I see them without any
> particular training in the area.

Yes, it doesn't take a plumber to notice a clogged toilet. Just like it doesn't
take a web developer to recognize that `404 Not Found` or `500 Internal Server
Error` means something went wrong but can you do anything about that clog
without a plunger? And where did you learn to use it? Unless you were born with
the knowledge of the existence and use of plungers, someone showed you how to
use it. That's all I'm advocating here. Teach everyone to use the plungers of
coding. It's interesting to remark however, that there is very little someone
with a programming plunger can fix.  It takes so much more to get any real work
done. So why bother? A little bit of understanding never killed anyone and
you'll have at least some basic understanding of what your programmer is doing
for you if you know how tough it is to 

#### Wrapping Up

I'm about to arrive in my last operating systems class of the year, so I need to
go and I want to publish this while I'm still caffeinated and disappointed
enough to go head-on against one of the authors and developers whom I deeply
respect. Much of your argument is extremely valid and the "everyone should
learn programming" {initiative,movement,meme} should accept this criticism,
which I do, and synthesize it so that we can better reach our goal.

However, you've thrown the baby out with the bathwater in your haste to put a
stop to misinformation and are losing a really powerful way to engage inquiring
minds of all ages with a deeply interesting and modern art, computer
programming.

[0]: http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2012/05/please-dont-learn-to-code.html
[1]: http://codeacademy.com
